The war in video games

About 90% of people believe video games cause violence. That is shocking. Imagine your mom just reading a conspiracy article on the internet and bans all your video game access for no reason. And all this is caused by misinformation. This happens a lot and just results in parents pinning all their kid's problems on video games which is dangerous. The fact these parents can’t understand that outside factors like bullying can cause violence is threateningly bad. I believe all these conspiracy articles and websites should be shut down by someone as video games aren’t fully to blame for this problem. This will help reduce misinformation, allow parents to sit down and talk to their child about problems in life, and just help your parents understand the real effects of video games.                                                                                                           

First of all, I need to clarify video games do NOT cause school shootings. Video games are a relaxing way for people to connect. Many studies have shown that video does not cause violence. Such as the Oxford study which showed that video games do not provoke violence. There are even entire subreddits that video games should be banned like r/banvideogames how people could be so ignorant surprises me. Most people are just misinformed though. Most experts agree that video games improve cognitive skills and more. Video games also expose kids to technology more early in this technology-based world. With all these points one might wonder, how do people believe such myths. All misinformation. To sum it up, video games don't cause violence.

Second of all, many outside factors cause violence like bullying, etc. Many kids also known as the “quiet kids” are kids that have no social friends and get bullied very often. Most of them end up being school shooters. In a country like the U.S.A where school shootings are more and more of a problem you may think, how haven’t we solved this problem yet? Simple. All our resources go into blaming games and in fact, a bill was held to ban violent video games until you 8 in California. All these resources are going into things that won't help this problem. We need to make more gun laws instead of blaming games. If all our resources migrated from “ban video games” to “make better gun laws” school shoots will drop dramatically. And our kids will be safer. 

Video games improve kids by giving them relaxation and improving cognitive skills. 61% of boys play video games to relax, 47% because it helps them have a second life and forgot about life for a bit, and 45% because it helps get the anger out. Video games help connect people and make friends you never thought of before. You learn new things, improve cognitive skills and communication skills and the number of benefits is endless. These should be recognized instead of the extremely small % of bad things. Video games introduced many people like me to coding and mod making! We need to support our kids. With the countless amount of positive things just setting limits would prevent any addiction and then there is truly no downside.

The opposition might say that “90% of pedestrians and 67% of parents agree video games can be partially the reason for violent actions” or gaming can cause addiction which can lead to violence. While this is true the fact is while video game sales skyrocketed, the number of violent crimes DECREASED and the amount of video gamers that get addicted is really low and it's easy to prevent yourself from getting addicted. Time limits. Yes, some people are becoming violent but that is an extremely small number of people. Some people get violent from rap music, watching sports, or drinking coffee but we don't see any of them getting banned.



With all these reasons in mind, you can see video games really don't cause violence and could maybe even help you to an extent. Video games are a way for people to connect and have fun. I urge everyone to put up posters about the true effects of video games and maybe even take down a few conspiracy websites. Doing this can make the spread of misinformation a lot slower and make the world a better place. 


Work cited 

Restrepo, Miguel. “No, Video Games Don't Cause Violence.” The Discoverer, https://thediscoverer.columbus.edu.co/showcase/no-video-games-dont-cause-violence/.


Burke, Aiden. “Video Games Don't Cause Violence; They Do the Contrary.” Mill Valley News, https://www.mvnews.org/video-games-dont-cause-violence-they-do-the-contrary.


Claire McCarthy, MD. “Protecting Children from the Dangers of Virtual Violence.” Harvard Health, 6 Oct. 2021, https://www.health.harvard.edu/newsletter_article/violent-video-games-and-young-people.


